index.md, before:

Air Liquide Open Source projects
---

# Predictable Farm

## Introduction

Predictable Farm is a connected farm system that allows to run a small to mid-sized cluster of farms automatically by capturing relevant sensor data and controling physical actuators via a visual flow editor.

The following repositories belong to the Predictable Farm Project : 

**Embedded device software** :

  - [predictable.farm.embedded-software.os](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.embedded-software.os)
  - [predictable.farm.embedded-software](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.embedded-software)
  - [predictable.farm.embedded-software.offline-strategy-generator](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.embedded-software.offline-strategy-generator)
  - [predictable.farm.embedded-software.sensor-simulator](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.embedded-software.sensor-simulator)

**General instance** :

  - [predictable.farm.proxy](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.proxy)
  - [predictable.farm.authentication-bridge](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.authentication-bridge)

**Local instances** (farms) :

  - [predictable.farm.cassandra](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.cassandra)
  - [predictable.farm.automation-engine](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.automation-engine)
  - [predictable.farm.dashboard](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.dashboard)

**Utilities** :

  - [predictable.farm.mirror.client](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.mirror.client)
  - [predictable.farm.mirror.server](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.mirror.server)
  - [predictable.farm.mirror.webapp](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.mirror.webapp)


### Technical stack

The system is built on the following technologies :

**Hardware**

We use the [Siemens IOT2000 automation gateway](https://w3.siemens.com/mcms/pc-based-automation/en/industrial-iot/pages/default.aspx) with a custom interface board (see the CAD folder in [predictable.farm.embedded-software]()). The OS is built using specific [Yocto](https://www.yoctoproject.org/) layers.

> The hardware files are provided as [Fritzing](http://fritzing.org/home/) files and a BOM (spreadsheet). You can export Gerber files from Fritzing easily.

**Software**

The server side is based on a [Node-RED](https://nodered.org/) instance along with a [Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/) backend, behind a [redbird](https://github.com/OptimalBits/redbird) proxy. A dashboard (NodeJS) is available. Minor utilities are provided, such as tunneling clients and servers to easily monitor the hardware devices.

## How does it work ?

The infrastructure consists of one general proxy/auth instance, and as many local farm instances as there are separate farms.

![infra schema](https://github.com/airliquide/airliquide.github.io/raw/master/images/infra.png "General infrastucture")

### Entry point

The main entry point is an EC2 instance that acts as a proxy and authentication frontend.

It gets all the incoming requests, authenticates the clients and triage them, and then redirects the trafic to the farm instance. Each farm has a dedicated instance.

The relevant repositories are [predictable.farm.proxy](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.proxy) and [predictable.farm.authentication-bridge](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.authentication-bridge)

### Dedicated farm instances

Each dedicated farm instance is as well an EC2 instance with an internal IP on the same network than the general instance. On it runs :

  - a local proxy (redbird)
  - 3 docker containers : one for the automation engine (Node-RED), one for Cassandra (the storage), and one for the dashboard

When a device is online and connects to send data, it targets an individual farm (_i.e. a subdomain, for instance "MyFarm"_). The general proxy and authentication mechanism will redirect to the local instance dedicated to this individual farm "MyFarm".

In case the connection is made through a websocket, or if the requested resource is `/automation`, the local proxy of the "MyFarm" instance will redirect to Node-RED. Otherwise, it will end up serving the dashboard.

## License

Predictable Farm is licensed under the MIT. A copy of the license and the relevant copyright headers are present in every repository.

Commit message:

Highlighting the fact that predictable.afrm projects belong to a Proof Of Concept and not to a production environement.

index.md, after:

Air Liquide Open Source projects
---

# Predictable Farm -  Proof Of Concept

## Introduction

Predictable Farm is a connected farm system Proof Of Concept that allows to run a small to mid-sized cluster of farms automatically by capturing relevant sensor data and controling physical actuators via a visual flow editor.

This system has been tested during two year on an aquaponic farm to challenge traditional automation systems using PLCs in term of user experience, reliability and pricing.
This Proof Of Concept has never gone to production phase because of the lack of reliability of field device sensors (calibration issues) and actuators (high power relay generating ECM disturbing ethernet PoE channel on our design) but may be adapted to run on more appropriate field devices or just for hobyist projects at home.
During this Proof Of Concept, Air Liquide digital teams developped somes interresting add-ons, that may be usefull as starting point for other projects and are therefore shared on this Github group. You may especially have a look to the way we integrated third party dashboard with [node-red](https://nodered.org/), enalbled [BOOST](https://www.highcharts.com/docs/advanced-chart-features/boost-module) library to help handled several thousand of data on JS chart libraries without any lag,  time series database Cassandra to store all sensors events in real time, or the offline strategy generator to deploy IBM node red flow (recipe) directly into field devices, or very simple device management based on remote firmware update and remote ssh tunnels. 

The following repositories belong to the Predictable Farm Project : 

**Embedded device software** :

  - [predictable.farm.embedded-software.os](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.embedded-software.os)
  - [predictable.farm.embedded-software](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.embedded-software)
  - [predictable.farm.embedded-software.offline-strategy-generator](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.embedded-software.offline-strategy-generator)
  - [predictable.farm.embedded-software.sensor-simulator](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.embedded-software.sensor-simulator)

**General instance** :

  - [predictable.farm.proxy](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.proxy)
  - [predictable.farm.authentication-bridge](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.authentication-bridge)

**Local instances** (farms) :

  - [predictable.farm.cassandra](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.cassandra)
  - [predictable.farm.automation-engine](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.automation-engine)
  - [predictable.farm.dashboard](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.dashboard)

**Utilities** :

  - [predictable.farm.mirror.client](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.mirror.client)
  - [predictable.farm.mirror.server](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.mirror.server)
  - [predictable.farm.mirror.webapp](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.mirror.webapp)


### Technical stack

The system is built on the following technologies :

**Hardware**

We use the [Siemens IOT2000 automation gateway](https://w3.siemens.com/mcms/pc-based-automation/en/industrial-iot/pages/default.aspx) with a custom interface board (see the CAD folder in [predictable.farm.embedded-software]()). The OS is built using specific [Yocto](https://www.yoctoproject.org/) layers.

> The hardware files are provided as [Fritzing](http://fritzing.org/home/) files and a BOM (spreadsheet). You can export Gerber files from Fritzing easily.

**Software**

The server side is based on a [Node-RED](https://nodered.org/) instance along with a [Cassandra](https://cassandra.apache.org/) backend, behind a [redbird](https://github.com/OptimalBits/redbird) proxy. A dashboard (NodeJS) is available. Minor utilities are provided, such as tunneling clients and servers to easily monitor the hardware devices.

## How does it work ?

The infrastructure consists of one general proxy/auth instance, and as many local farm instances as there are separate farms.

![infra schema](https://github.com/airliquide/airliquide.github.io/raw/master/images/infra.png "General infrastucture")

### Entry point

The main entry point is an EC2 instance that acts as a proxy and authentication frontend.

It gets all the incoming requests, authenticates the clients and triage them, and then redirects the trafic to the farm instance. Each farm has a dedicated instance.

The relevant repositories are [predictable.farm.proxy](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.proxy) and [predictable.farm.authentication-bridge](https://github.com/airliquide/predictable.farm.authentication-bridge)

### Dedicated farm instances

Each dedicated farm instance is as well an EC2 instance with an internal IP on the same network than the general instance. On it runs :

  - a local proxy (redbird)
  - 3 docker containers : one for the automation engine (Node-RED), one for Cassandra (the storage), and one for the dashboard

When a device is online and connects to send data, it targets an individual farm (_i.e. a subdomain, for instance "MyFarm"_). The general proxy and authentication mechanism will redirect to the local instance dedicated to this individual farm "MyFarm".

In case the connection is made through a websocket, or if the requested resource is `/automation`, the local proxy of the "MyFarm" instance will redirect to Node-RED. Otherwise, it will end up serving the dashboard.

## License

Predictable Farm is licensed under the MIT. A copy of the license and the relevant copyright headers are present in every repository.
